docs: new release process to include Status fleets (#2825)
waku-org/nwaku: .github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/prepare_release.md

 -->

### Items to complete

- [ ] create release branch
- [ ] assign release candidate tag
- [ ] generate and edit releases notes
- [ ] _End user impact_: Summarize impact of changes on Status end users (can be a comment in this issue).
- [ ] **validate release candidate**

  - [ ] **On Waku fleets**
    - [ ] Lock `waku.test` fleet to release candidate version

>     - [ ] Continuously stress `waku.test` fleet for a week (e.g. from `waku.sandbox`)

Reviewer: > I think here it should be `waku-dev` machine instead of `waku.sandbox`
> 
> We sometimes called the `waku-dev` machine `waku-sandbox`, so it might generate confusions. But IMO better to stick to the `waku-dev` naming

oh yes good point! I agree that the "sandbox" term is confusing (I will stop using it as well to refer to that machine ;P)

We can mention `wakudev` or more specifically: `metal-01.he-eu-hel1.wakudev.misc`.

    - [ ] Search _Kibana_ logs from the previous month (since last release was deployed), for possible crashes or errors in `waku.test` and `waku.sandbox`.
      - Most relevant logs are `(fleet: "waku.test" OR fleet: "waku.sandbox") AND message: "SIGSEGV"`
    - [ ] Run release candidate with `waku-simulator`, ensure that nodes connected to each other
    - [ ] Unlock `waku.test`

  - [ ] **On Status fleet**
    - [ ] Deploy release candidate to `status.staging`
    - [ ] Perform [sanity check](https://www.notion.so/How-to-test-Nwaku-on-Status-12c6e4b9bf06420ca868bd199129b425)
      - [ ] Connect 2 instances to `status.staging` fleet
      - [ ] Send contact request across and accept
      - [ ] 1:1 Chats with each other
      - [ ] Send and receive messages in a community
      - [ ] Close one instance, send messages with second instance, reopen first instance and confirm messages sent while offline are retrieved from store

>     - [ ] Perform checks based _end user impact_

Author: Exactly. If the change is "more nodes will be found by the apps" then should run and confirm that indeed it finds more nodes.

Or if it's "faster store queries" we need to at least check store does work

    - [ ] Ask other CCs to point their instance to `status.staging` for a week and use the app as usual.
    - [ ] Ask Status/QA to perform sanity checks (as described above) + checks based on _end user impact_
    - [ ] Get other CCs sign-off: they comment on this PR "used app for a week, no problem", or problem reported, resolved and new RC
    - [ ] Get Status/QA sign-off

- [ ] **proceed with release**

>   - [ ] open PR and merge release notes to master
>   - [ ] cherry-pick release notes to the release branch
>   - [ ] assign release tag to the cherry-picked release notes commit

Reviewer: IMO, the PR should be submitted after the release has been made. I will add another suggestion below.
```suggestion
  - [ ] assign a release tag to the same commit that contains the validated release-candidate tag
```

  - [ ] create GitHub release
  - [ ] deploy the release to DockerHub
  - [ ] [deploy release to `waku.sandbox` fleet](https://ci.infra.status.im/job/nim-waku/job/deploy-waku-sandbox)
  - [ ] announce the release

- [ ] **Promote release to fleets**.
  - [ ] Deploy final release to `waku.prod`
  - [ ] Deploy final release to `status.staging`
  - [ ] Deploy final release to `status.test` (soon to be `status.prod`)

> 

Reviewer: - [ ] **post release**
  - [ ] Submit a PR from the release branch to master. Important to commit the PR with "create a merge commit" option.

Author: Is that post release? Shouldn't it be part of "proceed with release" step (one step after creating the github release).

Author: I added it to "proceed with release", wdyt?

Reviewer: > I added it to "proceed with release", wdyt?

I'm happy with that as well, thanks :)

      - [ ] Close one instance, send messages with second instance, reopen first instance and confirm messages sent while offline are retrieved from store
    - [ ] Perform checks based _end user impact_
    - [ ] Ask other CCs to point their instance to `status.staging` for a week and use the app as usual.
    - [ ] Ask Status/QA to perform sanity checks (as described above) + checks based on _end user impact_
    - [ ] Get other CCs sign-off: they comment on this PR "used app for a week, no problem", or problem reported, resolved and new RC
    - [ ] Get Status/QA sign-off

- [ ] **Proceed with release**

  - [ ] Assign a release tag to the same commit that contains the validated release-candidate tag
  - [ ] Create GitHub release
  - [ ] Deploy the release to DockerHub
  - [ ] Announce the release
  - [ ] Submit a PR from the release branch to master. Important to commit the PR with "create a merge commit" option.

- [ ] **Promote release to fleets**.
  - [ ] [Deploy final release to `waku.sandbox` fleet](https://ci.infra.status.im/job/nim-waku/job/deploy-waku-sandbox)
  - [ ] Deploy final release to `waku.prod`
  - [ ] Deploy final release to `status.staging`

>   - [ ] Deploy final release to `status.test` (soon to be `status.prod`)

Author: Should we add CI links for all these steps?
Or do the last steps means pinging infra?

Reviewer: Yes, good point!

Links:
- `waku.test` - https://ci.infra.status.im/job/nim-waku/job/deploy-waku-test/
- `waku.sandbox` - https://ci.infra.status.im/job/nim-waku/job/deploy-waku-sandbox/
- `shards.staging` - https://ci.infra.status.im/job/nim-waku/job/deploy-shards-staging/
- `shards.test` - https://ci.infra.status.im/job/nim-waku/job/deploy-shards-test/

Author: won't nwaku master get deployed automatically to `waku.test`? isn't it how ti works?

Reviewer: > won't nwaku master get deployed automatically to `waku.test`? isn't it how ti works?

Yes, you are absolutely right. Nevertheless, during the testing time, we disable the automatic deployments and leave the release candidate version running for some days (ideally one week.)

Author: > Yes, you are absolutely right. Nevertheless, during the testing time, we disable the automatic deployments and leave the release candidate version running for some days (ideally one week.)

Yes, we have an entry `unlock waku.test` already, so I assume the deployment will resume. Let me know if it's not clear enough in the new tempalte.

>   - [ ] Deploy final release to `waku.prod`
>   - [ ] Deploy final release to `status.staging`
>   - [ ] Deploy final release to `status.test` (soon to be `status.prod`)

Reviewer: We don't have `waku.prod`.
```suggestion
  - [ ] Deploy final release to `shards.staging`
  - [ ] Deploy final release to `shards.test` (soon to be `status.prod`)
```

Author: we don't? What's TWN then? where do you deploy final Waku releases for TWN?

      - Most relevant logs are `(fleet: "waku.test" OR fleet: "waku.sandbox") AND message: "SIGSEGV"`
    - [ ] Run release candidate with `waku-simulator`, ensure that nodes connected to each other
    - [ ] Unlock `waku.test`

  - [ ] **On Status fleet**
    - [ ] Deploy release candidate to `status.staging`
    - [ ] Perform [sanity check](https://www.notion.so/How-to-test-Nwaku-on-Status-12c6e4b9bf06420ca868bd199129b425) and log results as comments in this issue.
      - [ ] Connect 2 instances to `status.staging` fleet, one in relay mode, the other one in light client.
      - [ ] 1:1 Chats with each other
      - [ ] Send and receive messages in a community
      - [ ] Close one instance, send messages with second instance, reopen first instance and confirm messages sent while offline are retrieved from store
    - [ ] Perform checks based _end user impact_
    - [ ] Ask other (Waku and Status) CCs to point their instance to `status.staging` for a week and use the app as usual.
    - [ ] Ask Status-QA to perform sanity checks (as described above) + checks based on _end user impact_

>     - [ ] Ask Status-QA or infra to run the automated Status e2e tests against `status.staging`

Author: We believe this is the test suite: https://ci.infra.status.im/job/status-desktop/job/e2e/job/manual/

unclear how to run it against a specific fleet (`shards.staging`).

 -->

### Items to complete

All items below are to be completed by the owner of the given release.

Note that `status.staging` refers to `shards.staging` fleet (rename is wip).

- [ ] Create release branch
- [ ] Assign release candidate tag to the release branch HEAD. e.g. v0.30.0-rc.0
- [ ] Generate and edit releases notes in CHANGELOG.md
- [ ] _End user impact_: Summarize impact of changes on Status end users (can be a comment in this issue).
- [ ] **Validate release candidate**

- [ ] Automated testing
  - [ ] Ensures js-waku tests are green against release candidate

>   - [ ] Ask Vac-QA and Vac-DST to perform available tests against release candidate

Author: cc @fbarbu15 @Zorlin

      - [ ] Close one instance, send messages with second instance, reopen first instance and confirm messages sent while offline are retrieved from store
    - [ ] Perform checks based _end user impact_
    - [ ] Ask other (Waku and Status) CCs to point their instance to `status.staging` for a week and use the app as usual.
    - [ ] Ask Status-QA to perform sanity checks (as described above) + checks based on _end user impact_
    - [ ] Ask Status-QA or infra to run the automated Status e2e tests against `status.staging`
    - [ ] Get other CCs sign-off: they comment on this PR "used app for a week, no problem", or problem reported, resolved and new RC
    - [ ] **Get Status-QA sign-off**. Ensuring that `status.test` update will not disturb ongoing activities.

- [ ] **Proceed with release**

  - [ ] Assign a release tag to the same commit that contains the validated release-candidate tag
  - [ ] Create GitHub release
  - [ ] Deploy the release to DockerHub
  - [ ] Announce the release
  - [ ] Submit a PR from the release branch to master. Important to commit the PR with "create a merge commit" option.

- [ ] **Promote release to fleets**.

>   - [ ] Update infra config with any deprecated arguments or changed options

Author: I added this to avoid bad surprises.
